# Authentication

```
firebase.auth
```

## Methods 

### onAuthStateChanged
[method]onAuthStateChanged(listener) returns function containing [User](version /auth/user) or null;[/method]

Adds an observer for changes to the user's sign-in state.

Returns an unsubscriber function.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| listener  | **function** |


### onIdTokenChanged
[method]onIdTokenChanged(listener) returns function;[/method]

Adds an observer for changes to the signed-in user's ID token, which includes sign-in, sign-out, and token refresh events.

Returns an unsubscriber function.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| listener  | **function** |

### signOut
[method]signOut() returns Promise containing void;[/method]

Signs out the current user.

### signInAnonymously
[method]signInAnonymously() returns Promise containing [User](version /auth/user);[/method]

Asynchronously signs in as an anonymous user.

If there is already an anonymous user signed in, that user will be returned; otherwise, a new anonymous user identity will be created and returned.

#### Error Codes

TODO

### createUserWithEmailAndPassword
[method]createUserWithEmailAndPassword(email, password) returns Promise containing [User](version /auth/user);[/method]

Creates a new user account associated with the specified email address and password.

On successful creation of the user account, this user will also be signed in to your application.

User account creation can fail if the account already exists or the password is invalid.

Note: The email address acts as a unique identifier for the user and enables an email-based password reset. This function will create a new user account and set the initial user password.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| email     | **string**  |
| password     | **string** |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### signInWithEmailAndPassword
[method]signInWithEmailAndPassword(email, password) returns Promise containing [User](version /auth/user);[/method]

Asynchronously signs in using an email and password.

Fails with an error if the email address and password do not match.

**Note:** The user's password is NOT the password used to access the user's email account. The email address serves as a unique identifier for the user, and the password is used to access the user's account in your Firebase project.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| email     | **string**  |
| password     | **string** |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### signInWithCustomToken
[method]signInWithCustomToken(customToken) returns Promise containing [User](version /auth/user);[/method]

Asynchronously signs in using a custom token.

Custom tokens are used to integrate Firebase Auth with existing auth systems, and must be generated by the auth backend.

Fails with an error if the token is invalid, expired, or not accepted by the Firebase Auth service.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| customToken     | **string**  |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### signInWithCredential
[method]signInWithCredential(credential) returns Promise containing [User](version /auth/user);[/method]

Asynchronously signs in with the given credentials.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| credential     | **[Credential](version /auth/credentials)**  |

#### Error Codes

### signInWithPhoneNumber
[method]signInWithPhoneNumber(phoneNumber) returns TODO;[/method]

Asynchronously signs in using a phone number.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| credential     | **string** <br /> Phone number containing country code |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### verifyPhoneNumber
[method]verifyPhoneNumber(phoneNumber) returns TODO;[/method]

TODO

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| credential     | **string** <br /> Phone number containing country code |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### sendPasswordResetEmail
[method]sendPasswordResetEmail(email) returns Promise containing void;[/method]

Sends a password reset email to the given email address.

To complete the password reset, call [firebase.auth.Auth#confirmPasswordReset](#confirmpasswordreset) with the code supplied in the email sent to the user, along with the new password specified by the user.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| email     | **string** |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### confirmPasswordReset
[method]confirmPasswordReset(code, newPassword) returns Promise containing void;[/method]

Completes the password reset process, given a confirmation code and new password.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| code     | **string** |
| newPassword  | **string** |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### applyActionCode
[method]applyActionCode(code) returns Promise containing void;[/method]

Applies a verification code sent to the user by email or other out-of-band mechanism.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| code     | **string** <br /> A verification code sent to the user. |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### checkActionCode
[method]checkActionCode(code) returns Promise containing [ActionCodeInfo](#);[/method]

Checks a verification code sent to the user by email or other out-of-band mechanism.

Returns metadata about the code.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| code     | **string** <br /> A verification code sent to the user. |

#### Error Codes

TODO

### fetchProvidersForEmail
[method]checkActionCode(email) returns Promise containing Array of string;[/method]

Gets the list of provider IDs that can be used to sign in for the given email address. Useful for an "identifier-first" sign-in flow.

| Parameter |         |
| --------- | ------- |
| email     | **string** |

#### Error Codes

TODO

## Properties

### currentUser
[method]currentUser returns [User](version /auth/user) or null;[/method]

The currently signed-in user (or null if no user signed in).

## Unsupported Methods

The following methods are not supported in RNFirebase as they cannot work in the React Native environment or have a different implementation.

### getRedirectResult

### setPersistence

### signInAndRetrieveDataWithCredential

### signInWithPopup

### signInWithRedirect
